Merge changes from upstream (incl. PyPSA-Eur v2026.02.0) (#754)
open-energy-transition/open-tyndp: doc/benchmarking.md

<!-- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Contributors to Open-TYNDP <https://github.com/open-energy-transition/open-tyndp> -->
<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->

# Benchmarking

Open-TYNDP includes a structured benchmarking framework that runs automatically with every
workflow execution. It provides systematic, reproducible comparisons of Open-TYNDP model
outcomes against official TYNDP 2024 reference data for both the Scenario Building (SB)
and Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) phases.

* **Scenario Building** outcomes are compared against the [TYNDP 2024 Market Model Output Files](https://2024.entsos-tyndp-scenarios.eu/download/) and the [TYNDP 2024 Final Scenario Report](https://2024.entsos-tyndp-scenarios.eu/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/TYNDP_2024_Scenarios_Report_FInal_Version_250128_web.pdf).
* **Cost-Benefit Analysis** indicators are benchmarked for all calculated indicators and
  all projects against the official [TYNDP 2024 CBA results](https://tyndp2024.entsoe.eu/projects-map/transmission).

> Benchmarking results are published with every release on [Zenodo](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18608105) (currently only Scenario Building results).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benchmarking results continue to be published with every release on [Zenodo](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18608105) (currently only Scenario Building results).  View the [project website](https://open-tyndp.openenergytransition.org) for a detailed explanation of the results.
```
